The motor cortex is a region of
the outer sheet of brain tissue
called the cerebral cortex.
The movement of every part of
of the body is controlled by a
particular region of the motor cortex.
The motor cortex is divided into two parallel bands.
Based on information received
from other parts of the brain,
the band in front, called the pre-motor cortex,
decides which muscles to contract
to achieve a specific movement.
The band behind,
called the primary motor cortex,
receives this information and
activates specific muscles
or groups of muscles
through motor neurons in the spinal cord.
A seizure is an uncoordinated shaking of the body
that occurs when cells in the motor cortex
fire out of sequence.
When only a small portion of
the motor cortex is involved,
only a portion of the muscles of the body,
like an arm or a leg,
shakes uncontrollably.
When more of the motor cortex is involved,
almost all the muscles of the body convulse,
causing the person to fall down,
lose consciousness, and to shake all over.